# ES6

ES6 stands for ECMAScript 6.

ECMAScript was created to standardize JavaScript, and ES6 is the 6th version of ECMAScript, it was published in 2015, and is also known as ECMAScript 2015.

## Features of ES6

- Classes
- Arrow Functions
- Variables (let, const, var)
- Array Methods like .map()
- Destructuring
- Modules
- Ternary Operator

# Classes
A class is a type of function, but instead of using the keyword function to initiate it, we use the keyword class, and the properties are assigned inside a `constructor()` method.

## Constructor

A simple class constructor:<br>
```
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }
}
```
We can also create objects using the Car class.

```
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }
}

const mycar = new Car("Ford");
```
Remember : The constructor function is called automatically when the object is initialized.

You can add your own methods in a class:<br>

```
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }
  
  present() {
    return 'I have a ' + this.brand;
  }
}

const mycar = new Car("Ford");
mycar.present();
```
In the example above, we call the method by referring to the object's method name followed by parentheses (parameters would go inside the parentheses).

## Class Inheritance

A class created with a class inheritance inherits all the methods from another class. To create a class inheritance, use the extends keyword.
Let us create a class named `Model` which will inherit the methods from the `Car` class:<br>

```
class Car {
  constructor(name) {
    this.brand = name;
  }

  present() {
    return 'I have a ' + this.brand;
  }
}

class Model extends Car {
  constructor(name, mod) {
    super(name);
    this.model = mod;
  }  
  show() {
      return this.present() + ', it is a ' + this.model
  }
}
const mycar = new Model("Ford", "Mustang");
mycar.show();
```
The `super()` method refers to the parent class.

By calling the `super()` method in the constructor method, we call the parent's constructor method and gets access to the parent's properties and methods.


# Arrow Functions

Arrow functions allow us to write shorter function syntax:

### Without arrow function
```
hello = function() {
  return "Hello World!";
}
```
### With arrow function
```
hello = () => {
  return "Hello World!";
}
```

### Even brackets and return keyword not required<br>
```
hello = () => "Hello World!";
```
Arrow Functions Return Value by Default. This works only if the function has only one statement otherwise go with the normal arrow method convention and keep return keyword.


# ES6 Variables

With ES6, there are three ways of defining your variables: var, let, and const

## var
```
var x = 5.6;
```
- If you use var outside of a function, it belongs to the global scope.

- If you use var inside of a function, it belongs to that function.

- If you use var inside of a block, i.e. a for loop, the variable is still available outside of that block.

`var has a function scope, not a block scope.`

## let
```
let x = 5.6;
```
- let is the block scoped version of var, and is limited to the block (or expression) where it is defined.

- If you use let inside of a block, i.e. a for loop, the variable is only available inside of that loop.

`let has a block scope.`

## const
```
const x = 5.6;
```
- const is a variable that once it has been created, its value can never change.

`const has a block scope.`

const is a bit misleading.

It does not define a constant value. It defines a constant reference to a value.

Because of this you can NOT:
- Reassign a constant value
- Reassign a constant array
- Reassign a constant object

But you CAN:
- Change the elements of constant array
- Change the properties of constant object

# Array Methods

There are many JavaScript array methods. One of the most useful in React is the .map() array method.

## map()

- The .map() method allows you to run a function on each item in the array, returning a new array as the result.

In React, map() can be used to generate lists.

### Example
```
const myArray = ['apple', 'banana', 'orange'];

const myList = myArray.map((item) => <p>{item}</p>)
```

# ES6 Destructuring

- To illustrate destructuring, we'll make a sandwich. Do you take everything out of the refrigerator to make your sandwich? No, you only take out the items you would like to use on your sandwich.

- Destructuring is exactly the same. We may have an array or object that we are working with, but we only need some of the items contained in these.

- Destructuring makes it easy to extract only what is needed.

## Destructing Arrays

### Old Way
```
const vehicles = ['mustang', 'f-150', 'expedition'];
const car = vehicles[0];
const truck = vehicles[1];
const suv = vehicles[2];
```
### Using Destructuring
```
const vehicles = ['mustang', 'f-150', 'expedition'];

const [car, truck, suv] = vehicles;
```
When destructuring arrays, the order that variables are declared is important.

If we only want the car and suv we can simply leave out the truck but keep the comma:<br>
```
const vehicles = ['mustang', 'f-150', 'expedition'];

const [car,, suv] = vehicles;
```

## Destructing Objects

### Old Way
```
const vehicleOne = {
  brand: 'Ford',
  model: 'Mustang',
  type: 'car',
  year: 2021, 
  color: 'red'
}

myVehicle(vehicleOne);

// old way
function myVehicle(vehicle) {
  const message = 'My ' + vehicle.type + ' is a ' + vehicle.color + ' ' + vehicle.brand + ' ' + vehicle.model + '.';
}
```
### Using Destructuring
```
const vehicleOne = {
  brand: 'Ford',
  model: 'Mustang',
  type: 'car',
  year: 2021, 
  color: 'red'
}

myVehicle(vehicleOne);

function myVehicle({type, color, brand, model}) {
  const message = 'My ' + type + ' is a ' + color + ' ' + brand + ' ' + model + '.';
}
```
Object properties do not have to be declared in a specific order.

We can even destructure deeply nested objects by referencing the nested object then using a colon and curly braces to again destructure the items needed from the nested object::<br>
```
const vehicleOne = {
  brand: 'Ford',
  model: 'Mustang',
  type: 'car',
  year: 2021, 
  color: 'red',
  registration: {
    city: 'Houston',
    state: 'Texas',
    country: 'USA'
  }
}

myVehicle(vehicleOne)

function myVehicle({ model, registration: { state } }) {
  const message = 'My ' + model + ' is registered in ' + state + '.';
}
```
# ES6 Modules

- JavaScript modules allow you to break up your code into separate files.

- This makes it easier to maintain the code-base.

ES Modules rely on the import and export statements.

## Export

We can export a function or variable from any file.

Let us create a file named `person.js`, and fill it with the things we want to export.

There are two types of exports:

### Named Exports

We can create named exports two ways. In-line individually, or all at once at the bottom.

#### In-Line :
```
export const name = "Jesse"
export const age = 40
```

#### All at once at the bottom:
```
const name = "Jesse"
const age = 40

export { name, age }
```
### Default Exports

Let us create another file, named `message.js`, and use it for demonstrating default export.

You can only have one default export in a file.
```
const message = () => {
  const name = "Jesse";
  const age = 40;
  return name + ' is ' + age + 'years old.';
};

export default message;
```
## Import

- You can import modules into a file in two ways, based on if they are named exports or default exports.

- Named exports must be destructured using curly braces. Default exports do not.

### Import from named exports
```
import { name, age } from "./person.js";
```

### Import from default exports
```
import message from "./message.js";
```

# Ternary Operator

The ternary operator is a simplified conditional operator like if / else.

Syntax: `condition ? <expression if true> : <expression if false>`

## Example
### Using if/else:
```
if (authenticated) {
  renderApp();
} else {
  renderLogin();
}
```
### With Ternary
```
authenticated ? renderApp() : renderLogin();
```