# React JSX

- JSX stands for JavaScript XML.

- JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement()  and/or appendChild() methods.

- JSX converts HTML tags into react elements.

## Without JSX
```
const myElement = React.createElement('h1', {}, 'I do not use JSX!');

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```

## With JSX
```
const myElement = <h1>I Love JSX!</h1>;

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```
As you can see in the example, JSX allows us to write HTML directly within the JavaScript code.

JSX is an extension of the JavaScript language based on ES6, and is translated into regular JavaScript at runtime using `babel` package

# Expressions in JSX

With JSX you can write expressions inside curly braces { }.

The expression can be a React variable, or property, or any other valid JavaScript expression. JSX will execute the expression and return the result:

```
const myElement = <h1>React is {5 + 5} times better with JSX</h1>;
```

The above code basically translates to
```
const myElement = <h1>React is 10 times better with JSX</h1>;
```

# Inserting a Large Block of HTML

To write HTML on multiple lines, put the HTML inside parentheses:

```
const myElement = (
  <ul>
    <li>Apples</li>
    <li>Bananas</li>
    <li>Cherries</li>
  </ul>
);
```
# One Top Level Element

The HTML code must be wrapped in ONE top level element.

So if we write two paragraphs, we must put them inside a parent element, like a div element.
```
const myElement = (
  <div>
    <p>I am a paragraph.</p>
    <p>I am a paragraph too.</p>
  </div>
);
```
Alternatively, you can use a "fragment" to wrap multiple lines. A fragment looks like an empty HTML tag: <></>.
```
const myElement = (
  <>
    <p>I am a paragraph.</p>
    <p>I am a paragraph too.</p>
  </>
);
```
JSX follows XML rules, and therefore HTML elements must be properly closed.
```
const myElement = <input type="text" />;
```

# Attribute class = className

The `class` attribute is a much used attribute in HTML, but since JSX is rendered as JavaScript, and the `class` keyword is a reserved word in JavaScript, you are not allowed to use it in JSX.
Use attribute `className` instead.

```
const myElement = <h1 className="myclass">Hello World</h1>;
```
We use attribute `className` instead of `class` in JSX.

# Conditions - if statements

React supports if statements, but not inside JSX.

## Option 1: Write if statements outside of the JSX code:
```
const x = 5;
let text = "Goodbye";
if (x < 10) {
  text = "Hello";
}

const myElement = <h1>{text}</h1>;
```

## Option 2: Use ternary expressions instead from previous module:
```
const x = 5;

const myElement = <h1>{(x) < 10 ? "Hello" : "Goodbye"}</h1>;
```