# React Components

- Components are independent and reusable bits of code. They serve the same purpose as JavaScript functions, but work in isolation and return HTML.

- Components come in two types, Class components and Function components, in this tutorial we will concentrate on Function components.

When creating a React component, the component's name MUST start with an upper case letter.

## Class Component

A class component must include the extends React.Component statement. This statement creates an inheritance to React.Component, and gives your component access to React.Component's functions.

The component also requires a render() method, this method returns HTML.
```
class Car extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <h2>Hi, I am a Car!</h2>;
  }
}
```

## Function Component

A Function component also returns HTML, and behaves much the same way as a Class component, but Function components can be written using much less code, are easier to understand, and will be preferred in this tutorial.
```
function Car() {
  return <h2>Hi, I am a Car!</h2>;
}
```


# Rendering a Component

Now your React application has a component called Car, which returns an `<h2>` element

To use this component in your application, use similar syntax as normal HTML: `<Car />`

Display the `Car` component in the `root` element:
```
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Car />);
```

# Props

Components can be passed as props, which stands for properties.

Props are like function arguments, and you send them into the component as attributes.

Let's use an attribute to pass a color to the `Car` component, and use it in the `render()` function:
```
function Car(props) {
  return <h2>I am a {props.color} Car!</h2>;
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Car color="red"/>);
```
We will learn more about props in the next module.

# Components in Components

We can refer to components inside other components:

Let's use the `Car` component inside the `Garage` component:
```
function Car() {
  return <h2>I am a Car!</h2>;
}

function Garage() {
  return (
    <>
      <h1>Who lives in my Garage?</h1>
      <Car />
    </>
  );
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Garage />);
```

# Components in Files

React is all about re-using code, and it is recommended to split the components into separate files.

To do that, we create a new file with a .js file extension and put the code inside it:

### This is the new file, we named it `Car.js`:
```
function Car() {
  return <h2>Hi, I am a Car!</h2>;
}

export default Car;
```
To be able to use the `Car` component, you have to import the file in your application.

### Import the `Car.js` file in the application, and we can use the `Car` component:
```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import Car from './Car.js';

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Car />);
```